Product specification for Sussex
Demarcation: East and West Sussex
PDO GB number: W0006
1. Applicant(s)
Name: Sussex Wine Producers (SWP)
3. Details of protection
3.1 Name of product to be registered
'Sussex'
5. Category of the grapevine products:
'Sussex' sparkling wine
Traditional method quality sparkling wine
'Sussex' still wine
Quality still wine
6. Description of the wine(s)
'Sussex' sparkling wine is a traditional method quality sparkling white, rosé and red wine made from classic sparkling wine grape varieties grown within the administrative boundaries of the counties of East and West Sussex.
7.2 Viticulture practices
'Sussex' sparkling wine
Permitted Grape Vine Varieties: Sussex sparkling wine shall be made from the following grape varieties:
Chardonnay, Pinot Noir, Pinot Meunier, Arbanne, Pinot Gris, Pinot Blanc, Petit Meslier and Pinot Noir Précoce.
The vineyard owner must keep detailed records of yield and size of each parcel of vineyard land and make those available for inspection by Wine Standards and the Scheme Manager to confirm PDO status.
Harvest yields: Under normal conditions the maximum harvest yield shall be 12 tonnes per hectare.
(Note*: This level will only be authorized in exceptional circumstances, when it can be proved to the SWP that sugar levels, acidity and flavour are not being jeopardised, or in fact where conditions are such that reducing yield could be detrimental to the quality of the crop.)
'Sussex' still wine
Permitted Grape Vine Varieties: The following grape varieties are permitted within the Sussex PDO for still wine production:
Acolon, Albarino, Auxerrois, Bacchus, Chardonnay, Dornfelder, Gamay, Huxelrebe, Müller- Thurgau, Orion, Ortega, Pinot Blanc, Pinot Gris, Pinot Meunier, Pinot Noir, Pinot Noir, Précoce, Regent, Regner, Reichensteiner, Riesling, Rondo, Roter Veltliner, Sauvignon Blanc, Schonburger, Siegerrebe, Solaris.
8. Definition of the demarcated area
East and West Sussex
The current administrative boundary of West Sussex rises up from a point east of the town of Emsworth.
9. Link
9.1 Details of the geographical area (natural and human factors)
Soils
The majority of Sussex vineyards are based either on the chalk of the South Downs or on the mineral rich greensands to the north.
9.3 Link between the characteristics of the geographical area and the quality of the wine.
The high latitude of the Sussex vineyards gives the opportunity to have a longer growing season.
10. Proof of origin
During the process of harvest and winemaking, the producer must ensure that records are kept.
